services/core-web/README.md, before:

# Frontend application

The project uses a [Node.js (v14)](https://nodejs.org/en/) runtime environment and [React.js](https://reactjs.org/) library for the frontend.

## Module and Library dependencies

The application requires a whole suite of npm modules for building/testing/running the application. All the required modules can be found under package.json file.

### Building

- [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) : Project building and asset compilation.
- [babel](https://babeljs.io/) : Adds support for older browsers
- [sass](https://sass-lang.com/guide) : Clean CSS files

### Testing

- [jest](https://jestjs.io/) : Mocking and writing tests
- [enzyme](https://github.com/airbnb/enzyme) : Assert, manipulate and traverse react components

Contributors to this codebase are expected to follow the testing standards set out and determined by the team.

**Which includes:**

- Maintaining 80% coverage throughout the frontend

**Create new test suites for:**

- New Components
- New ActionCreators
- New reducers switch statements
- New selectors
- Every new function stored under `/utils/**`

_If coverage is lower than before writing a new feature, the tests **need** to be updated, and the feature is considered **incomplete**_

**Running Tests:**

1. To run the test suite without updating snapshots run:

```
yarn test
```

2. To run the test suite while updating ALL snapshots run:

```
yarn test:updateAll
```

3. To run the test suite while updating snapshots case by case Interactively run:

```
yarn test:watch
```

Then choose option 'i' and go through the failing snapshots case by case

### Running

- [react](https://reactjs.org/) : JS library to build single page apps
- [redux](https://github.com/reduxjs/react-redux) : State management
- [prop-types](https://www.npmjs.com/package/prop-types) : Runtime object type check
- [axios](https://github.com/axios/axios) : Library to manage network calls

## Directory/Naming convention

The SASS/CSS files naming convention is based off of [BEM](http://getbem.com/introduction/) and [ITCSS](https://www.xfive.co/blog/itcss-scalable-maintainable-css-architecture/).

The application is structured as follows:

```
|-- public
    |-- Assets that are accessible by everyone on the internet.

|-- src (Source code of the application)
    |-- actionsCreators (Axios calls for retrieving data from an external source)
    |-- actions (JSON objects that are dispatched to the redux store)
    |-- assets (Static images, icons, fonts etc)
    |-- components (React components for the application)
    |-- constants (Global constants i.e. URLs, Keys etc.)
    |-- HOC (Higher order React components to be re-used)
    |-- reducers (Redux functions for handling data sets)
    |-- routes (React page routes)
    |-- selectors (Functions to retrieve data from the redux store)
    |-- store (Redux store with required middleware configurations)
    |-- styles (SCSS files for styling)
    |-- tests (Unit/Integration tests)
    |-- utils (Commonly used helper functions)
```

## Pre-requisites and Installation

The application assumes you already have a working python backend running.

Follow the `.env-example` template to create an `.env` file with valid values before running the application.

A. OS Level Installation

- [Node.js 14](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

1. Install package dependencies

```
yarn install
```

2. Run the application

```
yarn serve
```

B. Using a docker container

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)

1. Switch current directory to the project root

```
cd ../
```

2. Issue the makefile command that runs the frontend

```
make frontend
```

## Code Contribution Standards

Contributors to this codebase are expected to follow the formatting and style
standards, as enforced by the Prettier and ESLint rules.

The linting rules are built on the Airbnb configuration. Contributors should
ensure that they are not introducing linting errors into the codebase with
their changes. Modern text editors, such as VS Code, will indicate errors.
See the usage guide below for more information on the linting CLI options.

Lint all files

```
npm run lint
```

Lint one file

```
npm run lint:file ./filepath
```

Apply linting rules to all files

```
npm run lint -- --fix
```

Apply linting rules to one file

```
npm run lint:file ./filepath -- --fix
```

Developers are encouraged to install the Prettier plugin appropriate for their
editor. This ensures that all committed code is properly formatted. VS Code is
commonly used by MDS contributors, so it will be used as an example for setting
up formatting on-save:

1. Install the VS Code Prettier [plugin](https://github.com/prettier/prettier-vscode)
2. Set `"editor.formatOnSave": true` in your editor config
3. Ensure that no conflicting code formatting tools are enabled (ex. Beautify)

Any developer who is unable or unwilling to apply the formatting on-save is
asked to either use the provided npm scripts to format their code before each
commit or to ensure that the git hooks are running. The provided git hooks will
automatically lint and format on-commit. They will also run the relevant tests
on-push.

See the usage guide below for more information on manual formatting.

Check one file

```
npm run format:check ./filepath
```

Check all files matching a pattern

```
npm run format:check ./*.json
```

Format one file

```
npm run format:write ./filepath
```

Format all files matching a pattern

```
npm run format:write ./*.json
```

Check all files

```
npm run format:check-all
```

Format all files

```
npm run format:write-all
```

Commit message:

[MDS-5093] setup documentation + remove testing from husky hooks (#2454)
* Contributing: stuff --> work + linting

* rename: add .md extension

* USAGE.md: marking obsolete, adding more specifics on where/how to run some commands

* README specifying business logic (and including excerpts of code?): suggest content belongs in Confluence instead and is probably out of date

* core-web README: Consider moving setup instructions to USAGE. More specific where to run tests, references non-existant commands, and I recommend a linting/formatting PR

* openshift debugging: Added some suggestions I picked up. Whitespace changes that might be bad- change formatting settings?

* Root level README: Fix links to workflow files, removed build (do we want a build link for each container? Add in under that particular service) and linked all other README files

* Root level README: Raised a node version issue that I encounter with testing that causes issues, often results in us pushing code with --no-verify flag

* lots and lots of changes to documentation files

* remove jest testing from lint-prepush

* removed an echo that doesn't make sense anymore

* added a missing sudo

services/core-web/README.md, after:

# Frontend application

The project uses a [Node.js (v14)](https://nodejs.org/en/) runtime environment and [React.js](https://reactjs.org/) library for the frontend.

## Module and Library dependencies

The application requires a whole suite of npm modules for building/testing/running the application. All the required modules can be found under package.json file.

### Building

- [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) : Project building and asset compilation.
- [babel](https://babeljs.io/) : Adds support for older browsers
- [sass](https://sass-lang.com/guide) : Clean CSS files

### Testing

- [jest](https://jestjs.io/) : Mocking and writing tests
- [enzyme](https://github.com/airbnb/enzyme) : Assert, manipulate and traverse react components

Contributors to this codebase are expected to follow the testing standards set out and determined by the team.

**Which includes:**

- Maintaining 80% coverage throughout the frontend

**Create new test suites for:**

- New Components
- New ActionCreators
- New reducers switch statements
- New selectors
- Every new function stored under `/utils/**`

_If coverage is lower than before writing a new feature, the tests **need** to be updated, and the feature is considered **incomplete**_

**Running Tests:**

1. To run the test suite without updating snapshots run:

```
yarn test
```

2. To run the test suite while updating ALL snapshots run within the core-web directory:

```
yarn test:updateAll
```

3. To run the test suite while updating snapshots case by case Interactively run within the core-web directory:

```
yarn test:watch
```

Then choose option 'i' and go through the failing snapshots case by case

### Running

- [react](https://reactjs.org/) : JS library to build single page apps
- [redux](https://github.com/reduxjs/react-redux) : State management
- [prop-types](https://www.npmjs.com/package/prop-types) : Runtime object type check
- [axios](https://github.com/axios/axios) : Library to manage network calls

## Directory/Naming convention

The SASS/CSS files naming convention is based off of [BEM](http://getbem.com/introduction/) and [ITCSS](https://www.xfive.co/blog/itcss-scalable-maintainable-css-architecture/).

The application is structured as follows:

```
|-- public
    |-- Assets that are accessible by everyone on the internet.

|-- src (Source code of the application)
    |-- actionsCreators (Axios calls for retrieving data from an external source)
    |-- actions (JSON objects that are dispatched to the redux store)
    |-- assets (Static images, icons, fonts etc)
    |-- components (React components for the application)
    |-- constants (Global constants i.e. URLs, Keys etc.)
    |-- HOC (Higher order React components to be re-used)
    |-- reducers (Redux functions for handling data sets)
    |-- routes (React page routes)
    |-- selectors (Functions to retrieve data from the redux store)
    |-- store (Redux store with required middleware configurations)
    |-- styles (SCSS files for styling)
    |-- tests (Unit/Integration tests)
    |-- utils (Commonly used helper functions)
```

## Pre-requisites and Installation

The application assumes you already have a working python backend running.

Follow the `.env-example` template to create an `.env` file with valid values before running the application.

A. OS Level Installation

- [Node.js 14](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

1. Install package dependencies

```
yarn install
```

2. Run the application

```
yarn serve
```

## Code Contribution Standards

Contributors to this codebase are expected to follow the formatting and style
standards, as enforced by the Prettier and ESLint rules. The provided git hooks will
automatically lint and format on-commit.

The linting rules are built on the Airbnb configuration. Contributors should
ensure that they are not introducing linting errors into the codebase with
their changes. Modern text editors, such as VS Code, will indicate errors.
See the usage guide below for more information on the linting CLI options.

Lint all files

```
npm run lint
```

Lint one file

```
npm run lint:file ./filepath
```

Apply linting rules to all files

```
npm run lint -- --fix
```

Apply linting rules to one file

```
npm run lint:file ./filepath -- --fix
```

Developers are encouraged to install the Prettier plugin appropriate for their
editor. This ensures that all committed code is properly formatted. VS Code is
commonly used by MDS contributors, so it will be used as an example for setting
up formatting on-save:

1. Install the VS Code Prettier [plugin](https://github.com/prettier/prettier-vscode)
2. Set `"editor.formatOnSave": true` in your editor config
3. Ensure that no conflicting code formatting tools are enabled (ex. Beautify)

Any developer who is unable or unwilling to apply the formatting on-save is
asked to either use the provided npm scripts to format their code before each
commit or to ensure that the git hooks are running.

See the usage guide below for more information on manual formatting.

Check one file

```
npm run format:check ./filepath
```

Check all files matching a pattern

```
npm run format:check ./*.json
```

Format one file

```
npm run format:write ./filepath
```

Format all files matching a pattern

```
npm run format:write ./*.json
```

Check all files

```
npm run format:check-all
```

Format all files

```
npm run format:write-all
```
